Updated cmake build, added yatool build (#1866)
ydb-platform/ydb: BUILD.md

# Building YDB from sources

From this repository you can build YDB Server and YDB CLI (Command Line Interface utility) executables. You can build using either Yatool or CMake:

> - [Yatool](https://github.com/yandex/yatool) is a primary multilanguage build/test system being used for [YDB development](https://ydb.tech/docs/development/build-ya). You need to use Yatool and follow the [YDB development](https://ydb.tech/docs/development/suggest-change) process to make contributions to the YDB project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Yatool](https://github.com/yandex/yatool) is the primary multilanguage build/test system being used to [build and test YDB](https://ydb.tech/docs/en/development/build-ya). You need to use Yatool and follow the [YDB development process](https://ydb.tech/docs/en/development/suggest-change) to make contributions to the YDB project.
```

> - [CMake](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CMake) is a secondary build system available, with CMakelists.txt automatically pregenerated by Yatool. You can build any binary atrifact from both trunk and release versions of YDB using CMake.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CMake](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CMake) is a secondary build system available, with CMakelists.txt files automatically pregenerated by Yatool. You can build any binary artifact from both `main` and stable release versions of YDB using CMake.
```

Release tags support both Yatool and CMake builds.

### Check out the latest stable YDB Server version for build

To build the latest stable version of a YDB Server, check out the latest stable Server tag from the repository. To do so, visit the https://github.com/ydb-platform/ydb/releases/latest page and use the provided 'tag' value in the `git checkout <tag>` command.

For example, at the time of writing the latest stable release was [YDB Server 23.2.12](https://github.com/ydb-platform/ydb/releases/tag/23.2.12) with a tag `23.2.12`, so the command looks like that:

```bash
git checkout 23.2.12
```

### Check out the latest stable YDB CLI version for build

To build a latest stable version of a YDB CLI, check out the latest stable CLI tag from the repository. To do so, visit the https://github.com/ydb-platform/ydb/releases page, scroll down to the top-most 'YDB CLI' release, and use the provided 'tag' value in the `git checkout <tag>` command.

> For example, at the time of writing the latest YDB CLI release was [YDB CLI 2.5.0](https://github.com/ydb-platform/ydb/releases/tag/CLI_2.5.0) with a tag `CLI_2.5.0`, so the command looks like that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, at the time of writing the latest YDB CLI release was [YDB CLI 2.5.0](https://github.com/ydb-platform/ydb/releases/tag/CLI_2.5.0) with a tag `CLI_2.5.0`, so the checkout command looks like this:
```

```bash
git checkout CLI_2.5.0
```

## Build using Yatool

> You can use native Yatool build for x86_64 under Linux Ubuntu 18+.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the native Yatool build for x86_64 under Ubuntu Linux 18+.
```

> Run `ya make` from the repository root, followed by an optional relative path to the build target. By default, `ya make` compiles a `debug` configuration, while you can choose to have `release` or `relwithdebinfo`. The latter is recommended for faster builds, as is leverages the YDB remote build cache.

Reviewer: it'd be useful to clarify what's the difference between the mentioned build modes and when to use which

Author: Can we leave it for later fixes?

> To perform build, Yatool downloads and caches relevant toolchains from the YDB S3 storage, so you do not need to install anything on the build machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build a binary, Yatool downloads and caches relevant toolchains from the YDB S3 storage, so you do not need to install anything on the build machine.
```
